# W3C Docs CG call, 2025-06-03

Present: Lola Odelola, Den McHenry, François Daoust, Patrick Brosset, Dipika Bhattacharya

Chair: Lola

Note taker: Patrick

Joining info:

To join the video meeting, click this link: https://meet.google.com/jdp-xvka-hyk
Otherwise, to join by phone, dial +49 40 8081617306 and enter this PIN: 544 514 889#
To view more phone numbers, click this link: https://tel.meet/jdp-xvka-hyk?hs=5

## Agenda

1. Welcoming more new folks
2. [Explore How Spec Explainers Are Used](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/7)
3. [Outreach](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/9)
4. [Web Doc Contribution Workshops](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/8)

## Notes

### Intro

Lola: round of intros would be good. This is Den's first time. More people usually, but there are various events, so we'll have a reduced group today.

Lola: I'm Lola, one of the chairs of the group, with Florian (off), also W3C TAG, as invited expert (no corporate affiliation), lot's of standards.

Francois: I work for W3c, part of the Team. Keep an eye on media and entertainement, and also developer experience, co-chairing WebDX with Patrick, focusing on web-features and Baseline. I also maintain tools related to spec edition, to improve spec quality.

Patrick: at Microsoft, PM on Edge team, DevRel activities.

Dipika: Technical writer on MDN team, I write a lot of docs, focusing on CSS a lot. As part of being on MDN, I do a lot of maintenance (issues, PRs, ...).

Den: Front-end dev at Washington school of law. No experience in docs. I use the docs.

Lola: very happy to you, we have something on the agenda relevant to you. We want to engage with more folks like you.

### Explore How Spec Explainers Are Used

Lola: within W3C, standards are created by writing a spec, reviewed by the TAG. Part of that review process is that a spec explainer is written. Ideally the explainer would be written before the spec. This is where you flesh out the ideas. Spec explainers are very useful. But there's been a proposal to get rid of them. See https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/7 for the link.

Lola: for those who do write docs, those who read specs, how do you use the spec explainer? Do you use it at all. Opening the floor for how people are using spec explainers.

Patrick: use them a lot, much clearer than specs. Always a problem statement and solution that's written from the angle of a web dev (at least often). Makes my life a lot easier to write docs.

Francois: Found them extremely useful, when they're written before the spec. I've organized a lot of workshops for W3C. Often ideas get raised, and people come to me asking how to push the idea forward. That's exactly when I say: look at the TAG guidelines and write an explainer. This works pretty well for that. I haven't used explainers after that. Once a spec is written, it's no longer a need that I see. Explainers are not maintained after that. But I wish specs themselves would go into that sort of details. Editors tend to remove as much prose as they can from specs, because that's harder to maintain. This is a bit of a pitty.

Lola: With my TAG hat on, this is good to know. Most people seem to be in agreement that explainers are good to get ideas out, before specs are written.

Dipika: Haven't looked at explainers so far. But I would really appreciate it if specs explained the problems being solved. Otherwise we often come up with really simple examples in docs. If I knew what big problem the spec was solving, that would really help make the right pitch for the feature in the docs.

Lola: have you not worked with explainers because you didn't know they existed?

Dipika: yes

Lola: maybe a case for having a link to the explainer in the spec. Maybe would address Francois' comment too, where the prose doesn't have to live in the spec, but is at least linked from the spec. Explainers would still have to be maintained. Dipika, what you're asking for is in the explainers: considerations, problems, solutions, etc.

Patrick: if the explainer isn't maintained over time, I don't care much, in my experience as a tech writter. I use the explainer very early in the process when writing docs about new features.

Lola: I will post a summary of the discussion on the issue.

### Outreach

Lola: we recently identified that we need to do outreach. I was wondering if we should talk about other ways in which we can integrate spec authors in the writing process. They know the tech that they created, they can write about it. But this could also be anybody who's willing to contribute to the docs. Maybe part of the spec explainer thing, we review the spec, and help the spec author compose those important sections like code examples. Or, should docs be part of the horizontal review process?

Dipika: One thing that comes to mind, re whether writers should be part of the spec review process. We could contribute for naming features. Sometimes there are features that are not named similarly. They're not easy to use, if users have to renaming the name. So for naming features, we could provide feedback. Plugging in writers early on in the process could help. In my previous job, we used to review error messages, and user flow, etc. When we review features, we can do that level of review. Look at the code, and see, from the dev perspective, how this will land, and provide feedback.

Francois: Your starting point is that it's hard to do outreach because it takes time. Turning that into the horizontal review process would take even more time. I would love to end up in a situation where groups would take responsibility. Same as how they take responsibility for tests. If they could take point on signaling that dev docs need to be written would be great. But hard to envision without taking more time.

Lola: maybe collab between W3C and MDN. In a similar to how specs are written by people who write at browser vendor companies. Maybe there's something (note taker: missed the rest)

Dipika: when we talk about outreach, what we were trying to do was outreach to devs, right?

Lola: 2 branches, yes, dev outreach, we'll come to that next with the workshop. But also outreach with the standards process. An issue I found is that the specs can be quite complex to understand and parse. So plugging into that process earlier would help with this.

Francois: An intermediary step could be a collab between WebDX and Docs CG. In web-features, in the explorer website, there's a link to MDN. That could be where we start detecting missing docs for features. BCD is extremely granular. But web-features could help identify areas where things are missing. Unless MDN already knows what's lacking.

Patrick: yes, mapping JSON file on the explorer website which maps between features and docs on MDN. Incomplete mapping. Could be a way to find missing docs.

Lola: So 2 things to think about. Missing docs, and bridge between spec writers and docs writers.

Dipika: Yes, (note taker: missed this)

Francois: on spec authors: it depends on working groups. Some have documentation in mind, some approach MDN directly. Some even provide the docs. And then there are groups where the spec authors are the implementers themselves, writing code and spec at the same time. More of a software engineer profile, who usually don't tend to naturally write docs (and less prose in general).

Lola: in the scenario where the browser engineer is writing the spec+code. Do you think it would make sense to write docs also?

Francois: would make sense, yes. But I don't know if they'd want to do this naturally and would have the right skills. Of course depends on the person, this is a generalization. But in a lot of cases, spec authors think the docs will be done eventually by someone else.

Lola: Google has web.dev. For a lot of the things they implement, they also write on web.dev. They have code samples, and blogs, etc. There's something there we could utilize in that space. But it's mostly to champion their own things.

Patrick: re Google, they have a lot of people in devrel, and likely a process where they do this systematically.

Lola: if we had more writers involved, is this a process that could be feasible.

Patrick: always a question of budget and priorities/investment. Browser companies document the things they work on primarily, through paying employees, contractors, organizations, because they want their features adopted. Are you talking about something more systematic, through this CG?

Lola: just throwing ideas. What's a low barrier of entry? What's manageable? What can we do that is doable with the resources we have.

Dipika: Comes down to what Patrick said. For example if I'm assigned to a feature, I will spend the time to understand it and document it, work with the spec authors and implementers. Wherever the writers are, they need investment from the company shipping the feature.

Lola: next steps: unclear.

### Web Doc Contribution Workshops

Lola: This is about the wider developer community. Not so much about spec authors, although they are part of it too. It would be benefitial of workshop for contributors to documentation, regardless of who you are.

Dipika: what I said on the issue is specifically for folks like Den. We want developer feedback comoing back into the docs. We want feedback from real life usage of the feature. We're talking about involving writers early in the spec. We can also involve devs early into the spec process. This can translate into feedback where the feature, and the docs get better.

Dipika: through that workshop, we can target all the stakeholders, especially the devs who are using the features, and get their view point on the issues they are finding about features, the hurdles they are facing.

Lola: Den, would be good to know how you use documentation in your everyday work.

Den: I've used MDN a lot over the years. I think a lot of people in my position, that's the primary source of information, from individuals. Like prominent people like Rachel Andrew, who are great communicator and have a platform. So for new features, that's through those folks. Otherwise for things that are more established, we go through MDN.

Lola: in terms of contributing to MDN, have you thought about?

Den: thought about it, always wanted to do, haven't done it. I've done frontend for a long time, still thinking I'm not a real developer/programmer. I'm really behind the scenes can of person. My boss has been encouraging me to do it more. But social anxiety. Putting yourself out there, and having your name, etc. I want to see what people are really doing and trying to get involve.

Lola: to Dipika's poinbt, maybe a low hanging fruit is reporting real world examples that should be in docs, but aren't. You use the docs everyday, you use it in your work. I haven't written any production code in a long time.

Dipika: If suppose, in the past, you've used MDN, if you thought you didn't understand something, or you had to go elswhere. Would it have helped if there was a Slack channel, and you could drop a message? To reduce the friction or the steps that devs find in contributing back to the docs, when using a feature. What would make it easier for developers to give feedback about how they use features. Wondering if it would be easier to provide more forums other than just creating an issue on the github repo. To request more examples, guides, etc.

Den: Slack channel: I would worry this would become so unweildly for you. Wouldn't want to be on the other side. I think it should be a bit of a bother to report things. There's already stackoverflow. I used to monitor CSS on SO, to help people. Not a great way to spend my time. There's so many low quality questions and answers. This would be a better forum because there's a certain filter, where the people involved are more qualified. I'm saying there should be a certain amount of effort. I wouldn't be adverse to joining a channel, but I worry it would be deluted quickly.

Lola: I don't think that's a major concern. I've seen it work well. For example for the webkit slack for their open source project. They have a code of conduct for how you ask questions, and prereq before asking a question. It doesn't mean that people don't ask questions, but it means that those questions that don't meet the bar are ignored. If you follow the instructions, you are not ignored. Somebody can easily say "please refer to the code of conduct". But yes, they have moderators, so something to consider.

Dipika: MDN also has a Discord...so community helps out with some QA.

Lola: next steps: we should put a draft together for the workshops we'd want to run. Identify 2 or 3.

Francois: +1 to running workshops. Regardless of the project, what's hard is getting people to write their first PRs. It takes a lot of time to get someone to be fluent in the process, and the spec or docs. The mentoring process works, but scale is limited. So workshop can help multiply.
