# W3C Docs CG call, 2025-05-20

Present: Florian, Schalk, Geoff, Patrick, Dipika, Chris, Will, Fran√ßois, Estelle, Daniel

Chair: Florian

Note taker: Florian

Joining info:

To join the video meeting, click this link: https://meet.google.com/jdp-xvka-hyk
Otherwise, to join by phone, dial +49 40 8081617306 and enter this PIN: 544 514 889#
To view more phone numbers, click this link: https://tel.meet/jdp-xvka-hyk?hs=5

## Agenda

1. Welcoming more new folks
2. Web Component docs follow-up
    - Issue: https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/1
    - Meeting notes https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/blob/main/meetings/2025-05-06.md
    - Any more thoughts since we met two weeks ago?
3. Web Security Docs
    - Will to present current status and outline for future work
4. Documentation feedback sources
    - What are sources of feedback for web platform docs?
        - Doc bugs filed
        - MDN satisfaction data
        - State of XYZ surveys (this was very useful for the Web Components docs discussion!)
    - User interviews
        - Would attendees of this CG be willing to be interviewed
5. Preparing topics for the next few Docs CG calls
    - (Florian) I'm interested in meeting up with Immersive Web CG to discuss [WebXR docs](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/158)
    - (Florian) Also interested in meeting up with Performance WG to discuss [Performance API docs](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/157)
    - What else? (ARIA-WG??)
6. Charter revision proposal
   - By Daniel, with a goal to be more description of the CG's practice (so far)
   - https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/pull/6
   - Open to suggestions (or rejection!)

## Notes

### About last meeting

Florian: we now have an issue about what we discussed last week: https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/1

Patrick: will send this to Taylore on my team since she can be a good contributor to this.

### Security Docs

Will: Going to talk about the work in SWAG. Have some slides.

Will: The WebDX group a survey on MDN in 2023 on the State of Web Security and web developers understanding of it.

Will: 69% of web devs found sec threats to be very challenging to understand

Will: Secure the Web Forward workshop. Florian presented state of MDN docs. Reference docs are okay, guides, how-tos, are lacking

Will: As APIs change, reference docs get updated, but guidances often is left behind. This happened with CSP recommendations and guidance, for example.

Will: We then created the SWAG CG. Document Security guidelines for developers. For people building websites and for people building libraries. So two audiences, they sometimes overlap

Will: We're developing a set of guidelines for both audiences.

Will: SWAG has been helpful to produce docs for MDN Web Docs. Getting expert review and help to understand things. Brings confidence to the security guidance we want to give in the docs

Will: We complete rewrote the CSP guidance, working on a series of docs on attacks

Will: OWASP is hard to get into, assumes a lot of knowledge. Trying not to duplicate OWASP, starting earlier and pointing to OWASP for the gory details.

Will: Next steps: Threat modelling: its often abstract, we want to make it quite practical.

Will: Web sec fundamentals checklist

Will: Web Auth guidances

Will: Would love to have more SMEs engaged.

Will: SWAG is probably going to wind up at the end of the year. Suggestion is to move it to the Docs CG

Patrick: Hard to find people to do stuff for free

Chris: Yeah, I have experienced this too

Will: There is a lot of gate keeping going on.

Florian: making a parallel with web components. Big companies are empowered to do this because they feel they can invest and have the time to get into it. Smaller orgs don't have the time. Might hold true for many aspects of the platform. As documentarians of the platform, we can help change this.

Francois: the SWAG CG was partly made to attract these people. If SWAG gets folded into Docs CG, that might make it harder though, as Docs is more general. It's not specific to Security, or Web components.

Florian: yes, on this group to figure out.

Francois: We now also have SING, it includes threat modelling for web developers. https://www.w3.org/2024/11/security-ig-charter.html 

### Feedback sources

Chris: Use the socials for feedback

Will: Drafting a survey for security docs, would love to qualitative research. Need to understand the "Why"- Questions.

Florian: Let's try user interviews and report back to this CG how it went.

## Action items

- Will to create an issue on the Docs CG repo to capture information on the Security Docs project
- Florian and Will to look into Web Components content outline and give feedback to WCCG with the goal to invite for a follow-up conversation as well as onboarding new MDN contributors from the WCCG.