# W3C Docs CG call, 2025-04-22

Present: Florian Scholz (OWD), Estelle Weyl (OWD), Ollie W., Lola Odelola (lola's lab), Francois Daoust (W3C), William Bamberg (OWD), Daniel Beck, Dipika Bhattacharya (Mozilla).

Chair: Florian

Note taker: Lola

## Agenda

1. Introductions and kickoff for the W3C Docs CG
    - Welcome!
    - Round of introductions
2. Logistics:
    - Finding a time and schedule for calls
      - Current proposal: Tuesdays, 1 hour, every 2 weeks.
    - Determining a place for asnyc discussions
      - Current proposal: W3C Community Slack in `#docs-cg`.
3. Reviewing the charter
    - https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/blob/main/charter.md
4. Preparing the first Docs CG call
    - Identifying a topic and inviting SMEs, web developers, ...
    - Web Components? See https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/1

## Notes

### Logistics

Florian: Is current time ok? Current proposal comes from availability of OWD folks, I'm eager to hear what works for others, if this doesn't work. This TZ isn't friendly for Australia, East Asia or Pacific. Do We want an APAC friendly TZ?

Lola: Who in those TZs can't join?

Florian: Mike Smith, but I haven't heard from him about this.

Will: Hamish as well. Multiple TZ wasn't massively successful before, it got confusing.

Daniel: Looking at participants list, quite a few people aren't here. We can survey those people to find out if the time didn't work today or didn't work in general.

Florian: I can send a question out along with the minutes

Dipika: How do I gain access to the slack?

Estelle: It works for me on my non-W3C email address

Florian: I can send you a direct email. Are we okay using the W3C slack? Do we want to use the IRC? Matrix? I think it works well with SWAG and other community groups. Alright, I can't see any disagreement.

### Reviewing the Charter

Florian: A few of us have already reviewed the charter, it's in a markdown file in the repo and in there you can find the mission of this CG and scope of work. If you haven't already, I would recommend you review the document as it's the working mode for this group. It seems like today there are lots of tech writers but I would love to work with Lola to reach out to spec authors, browser implementers, etc on topics we'd want to deep dive into.

See https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/1

Florian: Someone as already reached out from a web components group, they're actively searching for feedback into their technical writing and examples. I'd love to see more of this. It would be nice if we could take a look into the state of web components docs -- Will has-

Will: I have opinions

Florian: That could be the first topic of the next call, what we can be done to improve the material

Will: For me it brings up the issues of adoption, Web Components is a good case study for it.

Florian: Getting input from web developers is important because they can give feedback on the quality of documentation and can identify bugs, comprehension issues, etc which may explain lack of adoption. We're translating between spec and practical implementation, so web dev voices are importatant.

### Reaching out and inviting people to this group

Lola: Do we have a strategic way for reaching out to web devs considering they're an underrepresented group?

Florian: No but we have a big task ahead of us but I think stuff like having specific breakouts, actively inviting web devs.

Lola: Francois do you have ideas?

Francois: MDN would be better way to target developers, I'm used to reaching out to chairs and groups members. Web Components Group, HTML group would be good, Web Components have a breakouts group.

Dipika: On our page we can list topic areas for which we're looking for input, listing input from various groups, blank spots would indicate that we're still looking for participation for that topic from a specific group.

Florian: It would also be good to get input from first-timers so that we can understand how well the docs are written. So we also want to put out a call for inexperienced too.

Will: Can we use the Web Components as a model for how we do things? Re: Web Components, what happens next? Do we spin up separate thread? Add standing agenda item?

Florian: I'd propose inviting them to the call, someone else would look at wholistic state of Web Components, as a group we'd have an opinon ahead of call they're invited to, we'd share on the call. Then we take it from them.

Will: So shall we take issues from GH, we can build out the GH issue template

Florian: Exactly

Dipika: It would begin with scoping - are we tackling whole area or specific area? We'd have mini groups within this group and sharing our workflow, we can share pitfalls, learnings, etc.

Lola: In TAG we do design reviews, the submitters are required to give a high level overview of the spec they want to get review on. Minimum two people are assigned to review async.

Florian: That's a good comparison. I don't want to create process before we get started, but letting people start issues with us sounds good for now. But after a year, a process like a documentation review similar to how TAG works would be really good. The other thing I've learnt from WebDX is the use of workstreams, having a general stream and research stream, I could imagine a workstream for web components and maybe that goes on for a while until we think it's good enough and then we pick another workstream, etc.

Daniel: Maybe this is a little meta, this conversation has helped me understand better what this group is for. The way the charter is written is like we produce docs, but this conversation highlights it's more about helping other people create their docs.

Will: Yeah, this conversation is like a triage. People ask for help and we look for people to do the work but most of the work happens offline. So this meeting is like triaging.

Florian: Yeah, it's like assessment too.

Dipika: This group can be the place to come to find people who can improve web documentation.


### Web Component docs

Estelle: We definitely do need to figure out guidelines as we go along on what we want to work on. Web Components seems good but hasn't been touched in two years, it's not an active group. We'd have to figure out what kind of community. Eventually we'd want a form that indicates activity level, target audience, purpose, etc.

Florian: I like when people write docs but in this case, the feedback we'd give here may be question whether this will be actively maintained at all?

Will: The website doesn't look like it's had much activity but I don't know if the CG has. Another question is should this stuff live in MDN or elsewhere? Living in MDN means it will be maintained.

Florian: Thinking of a plan is part of helping people think about these things. Maybe we should have this conversation with them and not about them. Lola and I should invite them to the next CG call in the issue.

Estelle: When there's a project proposal, we should do some digging as well. I've written a lot on WC topics, but as I dig more, they've not been very active since starting in 2021, they seem to meet twice a year. The suggestion from Lola to do offline work to research, having a subteam who's done the research so that there's knowledge before we invest time into it.

Florian: We should do more outreach to get more web components people invited to the call. We also need some folks to do some research into webcomponents.guide page to let us know the state of things, so that we're better informed.

Estelle: Looking at the issue, we need more information on what they need.

Florian: I will invite them to the next call. If you have other topics in mind, let me know.

Estelle: Do we want to come up with questions we want to ask? What are you looking for? What is your goal? What do you need help on?

Daniel: Who is your intended audience?

Florian: Do you have an updating/maintenance plan for the writing you've shared?

Estelle: What is your writing/commit process?

Daniel: We should be clear that we don't need long lengthy answers, we just want an idea of needs.

Will: What is the problem right now? What could a solution be? How do they think it relates to other sites like MDN? Where do we want the docs to be, do we want to extend webcomponents.guide or do we have an editorial position that docs live on MDN?

Florian: Yeah, I think that feeds into maintainability

Will: and discoverability

Estelle: Another question is what are they looking for from us

Lola: This is a bit much for the first interaction. We don't want them to be scared away. We should provide them with the list of questions that we will be asking so that they can come prepared.

Francois: Might be worth looking into feedback from devs on web components as well, as in State of HTML survey: https://2024.stateofhtml.com/en-US/features/web_components/

### Closing

Florian: I'm hoping we'll learn more as we run this and hopefully over time we'll have a better process. The conversations we had today were quite inspiring and we'll get better as we do more and I'm very excited! If you have thoughts on how this CG should be operated going forward, please submit an issue or let us know in Slack!