# W3C Docs CG call, 2025-07-15

Present: Florian Scholz, Eric Meyer, Lola Odelola, Dipika Bhattacharya, Estelle Weyl, Alexandra Klepper, François Daoust

Chair: Florian

Note taker: Florian

## Agenda

1. Welcoming more new folks
2. Explainers, https://github.com/w3ctag/explainer-explainer/issues/19
3. Backlog for reference pages, https://openwebdocs.github.io/web-docs-backlog/
4. ACD https://github.com/w3c/aria/issues/2538
5. TPAC

## Notes

- Introductions

### Explainers

- Explainers are usually for TAG, overview of the spec
- Discssuion about usefulness of explainers
- They aren't maintained though
- Explainers will move into the spec
- Should the Docs CG own explainers?
- Explainer for explainers? Yes-> https://www.w3.org/TR/explainer-explainer/
- Guidelines for explainers in specs vs explainers as its own doc
- Estelle: Should we own an index of explainers?
- Estelle: Have Jeffrey join our call to discuss?
- Dipika: We need explainers. We need them updated, so if that's guaranteed by moving them in the specs, that's great!
- Dipika: two different groups might be inefficient for owning explainers
- Lola: More like the Docs CG owning the process for explainers?
- Lola: Have an auto-populated aggregation of explainers?
- Lola: Let's have a workshop about this at TPAC
- Francois: There are multiple mechanism that track spec proposals in known GitHub orgs, but not in personal spaces
- Estelle: We probably only want to track explainers that come with specs
- Francois: Philip H. also wanted to track explainers before there is a spec
- Estelle: Lets discuss at TPAC

### Backlog for reference pages

- Florian: Check it out, I can add new features
- François: Could perhaps filter out features with negative standard positions in list of features with limited availability to help prioritize things. Patrick maintains a mapping between feature IDs and standard positions.
- Florian: Can have a look. It may not impact that many features in the list.

### ACD

- Lola: describes the project

### TPAC

- Please see https://github.com/w3c/tpac2025-meetings/issues/59 for the proposed sessions.
