# W3C Docs CG call, 2025-08-26

Present: Lola, Estelle, Dipika, Patrick, Florian, Eric

Chair: Lola

Note takers: Florian

## Agenda

1. Intros (if necessary)
2. Explainer Horizontal Review Test
  - [Incubation: An Origin Object](https://github.com/mikewest/origin-api/)
  -  [Incubation: patching (interleaved out-of-order streaming)](https://github.com/WICG/declarative-partial-updates/blob/main/patching-explainer.md)
  -  [Approximate Geolocation](https://github.com/explainers-by-googlers/approximate-geolocation/blob/main/README.md)

## Notes

- Lola: Last time we decided to do a pilot horizontal review for explainers
- Lola: First one: Origin object
- Lola: Docs-CG perspective is difficult. Trying not to take the TAG perspective
- Lola: No clear use cases, no user research, we don't know if users want this
- Lola: Incubation explainer: so very speculative at this point
- Lola: Alternatives considered section is missing, but this might be fine given the state of the explainer
- Patrick: I have no idea what the problem we're trying to solve here is, that makes it hard to write docs. It would be nice to see what developers have to do today, and what problems they're facing.
- Florian: +1. Use cases section is missing. Not sure how to describe what devs would use this for. Not sure what the benefit is to anyone. Makes it hard to write docs.
- Florian: for OriginPattern, it seems to be the same as URLPattern, which we documented last week on MDN. I don't get what OriginPattern does and how it's different.
- Lola: Maybe Docs-CG could forward this feedback to TAG. Ask the question back to the author: what will this be used for?
- Estelle: What the timing here? Do we need to be prior to TAG? Should we?
- Lola: I think horizontal reviews get submitted all at the same time, sometimes they aren't done yet. Maybe we could be reviewing first.
- Lola: We could also have channel where we collect private feedback
- Lola: How easy was it to review this one?
- Florian: Easy. Well written, just not clear what to use it for.
- Lola: Next up is Patching (Partial, interleaved HTML streaming)
- Estelle: This one was too technical for me
- Lola: Alternatives considered, use case are missing here, too?
- Lola: Should we even consider incubation explainers?
- Lola: The question is more like "should this even be on the web platform"? So maybe it is too early?
- Patrick: I think we should review as much as we can, but maybe prioritize accordingly
- Florian: So here we have a very different situation that in the first explainer. It is not a simple interface addition. It comes with new conceptual information, how does this compare to existing patching mechanisms like in HTTP or other programming languages
- Lola: Even if we don't understand the technical aspects, we should try to ask questions to better understand this.
- Lola: Last one: Approximate Geolocation
- Estelle: Feedback: Want more internationalization here. Just talks about 4 US states. Need more info from other countries with privacy and security laws.
- Eric: This one is very privacy focused. Does this increase privacy or decrease it? How does it make things better for the user?
- Florian: Would be cool to talk more about the different to the current Geolocation API. What will change for whom and how would you pick the old vs the new API?
- Lola: "Can I document this explainer?"
- Dipika: Looking at the explainer explainer. It mentions use cases and problems it solves but these are missing from this explainer. Is this an existing problem? Or is it a new problem that has come up?
- Dipika: 3.3 says describe your proposal clearly with code examples, screenshots, etc.
- Lola: We want to review in terms legibility of prose and code examples. Many miss the use cases or alternatives considered, privacy and security considerations.
- Lola: How do feel about the timing of this?
- Lola: TAG reviewed 1 explainer this week, 2 last week, and then 5 the week before that.
- Estelle: In depth review would take longer
- Lola: on average 3 explainers per week
- Dipika: I don't have the bandwidth
- Eric/Florian/Estelle: Could probably take some time for it
- Lola: Todo: have a checklist for a Docs-CG review.
- Lola: We could also set up a more private backchannel for reviews and then bring our thoughts to the public.
- Lola: Have Francois advice us how to do a horizontal review in general
- Estelle: Any update on ACD?
- Lola: APA workshop was really great!
- Lola: Currently thinking about the browser testing side
- Lola: Delineating browser vs AT software bugs

## Actions

- None but we should probably review more explainers to get experience with it and to be able to create a horizontal review checklist. Probably centered around the question "Can I document this explainer?"
