# W3C Docs CG call, 2025-10-07

Present: Florian, Meyerweb, Dipika, Estelle, Lola

Chair: Florian

Note takers: Estelle

## Agenda

1. State of HTML Survey results
2. TPAC

## Notes

### State of HTML Survey results

Shared Lea Verou's slide deck

- https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hdmn7o5iDcjt6nk7QeGL5onzqok1lN-qzgMkGCfknhY/edit?slide=id.p#slide=id.p

6,000 respondents. Too many surveys, so generally fewer responses, but this got a lot of responses.

The analysis is ongoing. Slide deck is a "first look". 

Looked into "educational pain points". Survey results included 402 points in this area. Categorized into more than 13 categories. One was "conflicting advice" among other things. Accessibility was the largest group. Someone, likely us, needs to do a proper analysis of these pain points.

Lola: Is interested in looking at this. Does it make sense to meet up on this with WebDX CG? Are these freeform or select list?

Florian: I believe they were freeform and categorized, but need to double check. The last slide is a link to the data analysis doc, and Florian has access. Access is granted by Lea Verou.

Screen share of CODA view or results. May be able to research to share during either the next call or the one after that.

Lola: Looking forward to an answer to my questions in a few weeks. Do we want to work on these areas? anything we want to do based on this data?

Florian: DocsCG issue on web components can provide some insights. Can help indicate what type of reference docs we should invest in, and even areas to consider for funding requests. As a platform, we've invested in features and we should invest more in documenting those features.

Dipika: When we started this CG, one of the ideas was that we could work with developers who will partner with us on documentation. They can identify issues and we can invest resources. This is a good indicator of how the community feels about docs.

Florian: Agree. User interviews is useful. Open Web Docs is actually planning on doing that for the security docs. We can report back on how that went. Would be good to do this on a regular basis.

2025 data does include some information on web components similar to 2024. Yearly big surveys demonstrates where the needle has moved.

Lea is still analyzing it. She's on the webdx calls. she's interested in other use cases for this data. Us, as techwriters, is another use case.


### TPAC

TPAC is in a month. Two more Doc CG calls before TPAC

- Pre event: https://ti.to/ntt-db/kobe-developer-meetup

Estelle and Lola are giving a talk at the event.


- We have three Docs CG sessions:
  - General session
  - Conversational docs session
  - Explainer workshop
  
- Other sessions:
  - ACD meeting
  - Meeting with Web Components
  - Meeting with Authentication Adoption CG
  
General session: maybe a good time to look at the group's charter. Also discussing how conversations with AI/Chatbots effects our work and the landscape.

Lola: explainer workshop needs to have pre-determined goals. What do we want to achieve during that workshop. Generally, TAG members spread out to attend all the meetings, but there may be 3 people in this session so it needs to be tight.

ACD may or may not be discussed in the ARIA working group. Main updates will be from Matt King.

Florian: Will, Estelle, and Florian will be there and will likely spread out to attend more than one session at a time. It is going to be a busy week.

In the next two sessions we should brainstorm the explainer workshop and the other two sessions we are going to host. We may change things, but we should be well prepared; work out the contents of the sessions.

Lola: should we do that now?

Florian: For general session: a recap of how the kickoff went; what worked well what didn't. Reviewing the charter. It's got a lot in it. Was it too ambitious? Let's look at what's possible and create a 2026 plan. We might have guests interested in documentation. We should talk to them about what their doc needs are. It was good to have web components group in our meetings. Would be good to get more feedback like that.

Conversational docs session: nothing to present on this right now. 

Lola: Since Dom was the cheerleader for this. Should we ask him.

Florian: Dom is going to be very busy, but will ask if he can lead or at least kick off the session with some thoughts.

Lola: Patrick has been thinking about this. Put Lola in touch with Aaron Gustafason. Would be good to get them to be active participants. 

Florian: At i/o in berlin there was a lot of talk about MCPs. Not sure about the impact of MCP on day to day work. Will talk to Dom. If it doesn't come together, maybe we don't need to do this session.

Florian: The explainer workshop: we did the exercise of going through a few explainers. This session should be about what DocsCG brings to the table when reviewing explainers. Is there a list of checkpoints? Are we the correct vehicle to tell them they haven't met the explainer requirements. 

Lola: we are professional technical writers, and we should use our experience as pros. We are different from the TAG. Some TAG feedback is non-technical stuff that could be DocsCG feedback. Doing a tech writer review would free up the tag to focus on the technical aspect of the feature discussed instead of focusing on how it's presented. We can also say we don't want to review explainers.

Florian: We should discuss the process we could implement, like when does this group review explainers, expectations, etc.

Action: Florian to ask Dom about co-leading the AI Docs CG TPAC Session.
