# W3C Docs CG call, 2025-12-02

## Agenda

- TPAC Update
- What should we focus on 2026

## Minutes

Lola: Good to see everyone. A lot was discussed at TPAC. Three sessions: one general to talk about the Docs CG direction, one talking about AI led by Florian and Dom, and one about the Explainer explainer and whether we want to have ownership of that process.  Invited Matthew Atkinson and Jeffrey Yasskin.

…We decided not to take any part of the explainer process formally.  If we want to give feedback, we're free to do that.  Main reason is because of issues in terms of time commitment.  Reviewing them would take up all our time and nobody here is funded to do it.  But we can always give feedback.  Especially in terms of translating things into terms web developers can understand.

…In the general sessions, we assessed how things have been going and how things could go moving forward.   The main concern I remember hearing was time commitment.  We discussed taking the template of the WebDX CG and how they manage their calls.  They pick two things to focus on and who's going to focus on each one.  Two tracks: one for general DX stuff, and one for Baseline alone.  It makes sense since a lot of people there are funded to work on Baseline.

…We could have a track in our calls where things people are funded to document could be covered.  The other track would be about general Docs CG stuff.  We can iron things out in terms of how docs are developing, etc.  There wouldn't be an expectation to do work outside of the meeting.

Florian: I think it was a good outcome that we discussed the tracks.  There's always a research and preparation phase, and then a writing phase.  We're writing security documentation, but we still need review from subject matter experts as we execute the plan.

…We have a research phase like when we have guests to this call, and we figure out a content plan.  I think this two-track system kind of makes sense.  It helps clarify when we invite people to the call, when we go to working groups, and so on.

…It does put a bit of work on the chairs to get this going, but I think with security docs, it's shown that this can work.  Practically speaking, for security docs we're in the writing phase.  On the research track, we have some candidates but haven't picked one yet.

Lola: Next on the agenda is a discussion about what to pick.  Did you want to add anything about the AI session?

Florian: There wasn't a clear outcome. We mentioned it's a difficult space and it's unclear how we can help.

Patrick: Were there notes taken?

Florian: Yes, there were.  I’ll put them on Github soon.  I’ll try to see if there are summaries I can post into the Slack.  There was no groundbreaking thought like the two-track system.

Patrick: On the idea of a two-track system where we invite experts, I think it’s a wonderful idea.  Bringing people here helps form more of a community around the Docs CG.

Florian: Agreed.  I was in the performance WG session as an observer and they were thinking about re-chartering, and had a deliverable of a web performance primer.  The one they have is very dated, and should be retired and replaced.  I said yeah, you can always collaborate with us.  They were quite open to this.  We could add them to our agenda and assist with figuring out what's needed.  Sometimes it comes down to going to the WGs.

Patrick: I see it as this being the invitation phase, where we can put out a call for people working on performance documentation.

Dipika: I’m curious to understand how it works in the SWAG group.  I imagine we would invite certain folks and there would be meetings to discuss, but in the introduction we could set expectations and requirements.  Going forward, are the discussions async on Slack and in docs, or do people need to show up to meetings?

Florian: I think it’s better to talk face to face, or on calls.  The weekly calls are a reminder to those experts that we’re here and writing docs and need experts to look over our shoulders and make sure we’re writing the right things.  I think everyone in SWAG sees the value in that.

Lola: To add to that, in SWAG when I was in it and in TAG, the meetings act as a checkpoint.  They update the members of the meeting, but if you have work to do for the next meeting, you know you need to do things in that time frame.  When doing remote work, it’s 4easy for things to get lost in the pile.

Florian: Another benefit is that as we write about these technologies, there's a bit of Q&A for the spec and the working group.

Lola: Next is what we should focus on in 2026.  Would like to hear from everyone about what ideas they might have for places we can be useful.  Florian, I think you mentioned Web Components and Views.

Florian: More generally, I think the two-track system and more connection into working groups is my meta-goal.

Lola: You attend the Web Views group, right?

Florian: Yes.  I think it's more talking about documentation with these groups and how good documentation helps with adoption.

Dipika: Do the SWAG experts also include web developers?

Florian: They're definitely under-represented.

Dipika: One thing I'd like from this group is more developer outreach, going directly to the consumers of the documentation.  FInding out their pain points and what they need.  It will help us.

Lola: Agreed.  We should do that and it's something we've discussed.  A few things to be aware of is that when we ask developers to participate, especially more than once, if they aren't funded, it will be very difficult for them to justify the time. I think outreach to developers specifically may look like conferences or things outside this group where they already are.

Florian: From SWAG, what we're trying is a survey to gather a tiny bit of data and also volunteers to work with us.  Don't know if it will work.  Depending on how that works in the next year, I’ll reoprt back here and would hope we could do something similar.  My hope is that it would be possible to get an hour here or there.

…I have some friends who do user testing and they invite people into a room and all that.  I need to figure out how to do similarly in the virtual world.

Lola: I think about this group as a hinge that can straddle both the developer and standards communities.  User testing would be great, going to developers we know.  MIght be easier for us than other groups.

Florian: In a sense we're translators between groups.

Lola: Something that came up at TPAC was a desire to focus on things we have funding for.  It's easier that way.  SWAG has funding to work on documentation.  There is some funding for writing about Baseline.

Dipika: We're still planning MDN's 2026 roadmap.  If anything surfaces there, I can bring it to this group.

Florian: OWD is funded on security documentation well into the year.  We have another but I don't know what it will be yet.  We can look to see if OWD can take things on using our general funding.

Lola: Speaking of the research track, what do we want to research?  Web Components?  Are there other areas we want to look into?

Florian: I don't think we'll decide that today.

Lola: I mean in terms of ideas, things we might seek out funding for.  A rough idea of directions we could go.  Web Components is easy; we've already done work on it.  It makes sense if we want to continue down that path.

Patrick: Anything soon to be Baseline widely available, and anything in Interop.  If there are gaps, I mean.  A slightly bigger and more uncertain is things on AI devices.  If AI gains more traction in the standards world, then we might need more documentation like guides and tutorials.  There is one guide for the Summarizer API, but maybe there needs to be an overarching “AI on the Web” thing.

Lola: I think that’s a good shout in terms of what proposals we’re seeing in TAG.  For the most part it hasn’t been too controversial.  A few things, but nothing that’s been “this can never happen ever”.  So we should keep an eye on this.  Having AI on the Web documentation is necessary, because of how developers are using AI.  We need to consider the flip here.  Usually we rely on standards, but here developers are already doing this, so having guides on how to do it safely makes sense.

Florian: There's also WebNN, which is much more low-level.  The question is always how much documentation we should write about low-level concepts.

Lola: Sounds like we want to still figure things out.  What are the blockers to things we want to work on?  I'm hearing funding.  Any others?  Potentially time.

…How long should we wait, and what do we wait for to know we should start researching a certain thing.

Florian: I need until January.

Lola: Okay.  And Dipika, you'll let us know about MDN?

Dipika:  Yes.

Lola: Cool.  Any other business?

Patrick: On reaching out to web developers, 100% agree they're very time-constrained.  And even when they do participate in standards, it can be very intimidating.  I like the idea of going where they are.  Reach out to event organizers to see if we can be there, maybe have a short workshop or open hours or a board to post questions or something.  I see this at CSS Day and Smashing Conference.  It can be a very tactical, lo-fi tool.

Lola: Thank you.  Anybody else?

(silence)

Lola: Everyone gets back 19 minutes!  Do we want to have a meeting in two weeks?

Florian: I would say cancel.

Lola: Objections?

(silence)

Lola: Happy holidays and see you all in 2026!