# W3C Docs CG General session at TPAC, Kobe, Japan, 2025-11-11

Attendees: Simeon Vincent, François Daoust, Vadim, Lola, Florian, Rachel Andrew, Niklas Merz, Estelle, Alan Buxey, Micheal Wunderlich

Lola: goals for this session: review progress. We formed earlier this year with lofty goals, do we still want them or different ones?

Lola: each person to say something that's gone well and something that could be improved.

Florian: something that went well: meeting with other WGs, especially Web Components WG. Should be more of talking to other WGs about the work they are doing. Also survey results on Web Components.

Florian: not so great, we just met once and haven't followed up. Bandwidth issue, and it's hard for us to show up in random WGs.

Estelle: what also was good: meeting up with other technical writers. Could improve on: bandwidth, finding time for the things.

Will: I have been more involved in Security related documentation. I valued the discussion with Web Components as well. I think there's value there.

François: haven't been able to spend time in CG. Main drawback is again bandwidth, but happy docs CG is around and has fresh energy to standards process. If you feel you don't have the standing to be involved we can help with that.

Vadim: haven't been involved too much but noticed more discussions which is good to see.

Lola: something that went well: our openness to explore the explainer process, looking for ways to be more integrated into the standards process. Good reception from other groups within W3C as well, e.g. TAG. What could be improved? TPAc would have been a great opportunity to do a breakout workshop on tech writing, how features go from spec to MDN docs. But this is a lesson for next time.

Estelle: wish we had a way to communicate with WGs outside of meetings.

Florian: yes, feedback loops go both ways. We like to know about the WG work but they also like to see our perspective and the perspective that we bring of the web developer. Explainer work is part of this but there is more.

Will: e.g. in SWAG today, webappsec proposing process changes to help keep docs up to date.

Florian: everyone is into ensuring the adoption of the things they are working on, and docs are a big part of that.

Lola: we wanted to review the charter. 

Lola: item 1 in charter: plan and write new docs for web platform technologies.

Florian: we do this generally in our work, OWD has a backlog/dashboard for new things that are missing: this speaks to "make sure ref docs are complete". For "identify needs for guides", we have done some analysis for web components but not written anything. This group doesn't always need to be writing the docs.

Vadim: consider moving dashboard to Docs CG.

Lola: if this is a direction we wanted to go in, there is a precedent for this in W3C of CGs that do work that isn't specs.

Florian: dashboard is really rough but happy to relocate it.

Estelle: same thing: it is part of our workflow but happy to make it more public.

Will: SWAG CG is also a precedent for this.

Vadim: would help to get non-OWD people involved in the CG.

Simeon: interested in this from the perspective of browser extensions, improving the docs.

Estelle: would this be in mdn/content or the dashboard/CG

Simeon: don't know. Right now trying to figure out how browser extensions can participate better in standards process.

Lola: so decided to move dashboard.

Lola, item 2: "work with spec authors to define best practices for docs, code samples, IA". We haven't done this.

Rachel: with spec author hat on, what were you expecting from spec authors?

Lola: web devs do read specs, and tech writers need to understand them too and some specs (e.g. CSS) are more readable than others. 

Florian: we were thinking of DOM specs that are very hard to read (procedure-based) and don't include code examples. But if we don't know what this means we should clarify the charter item.

Estelle: the explainer is in scope for this. We've made a start.

Lola: item 3: maintain docs using approaches like docs as code

Florian: also that repositories talk to each other (e.g. integrating webref into MDN). Integrated webref v7 into BCD. Maintenance is going on. There are more opportunities for us to follow up on here.

Lola: this makes me think in our meetings we should have regular updates on work going on that's relevant to the charter.

Lola: item 4: be a resource for resources: map documentation sources for web devs and invite them

Florian: we have had web.dev present in the call. Still heavy on MDN. We see microsites like passkeys.dev.

Lola: q for Rachel: is this group something your writers would be open to participating in? Is there alignment?

Rachel: possibly. We have 2 sites, web.dev and developer.chrome.com. Alexandra was interested, others would be. Hard to make time though.

Lola: some groups use the mailing list a lot, maybe we should provide email updates.

Florian: would prefer GitHub issues.

Florian: could be useful when we want to deprecate, so as to coordinate a message across sites.

Vadim: do we have contacts at w3schools?

Florian: yes, we could look into this.

Lola: item 5: driving adoption, including interpreting dev surveys

Lola: we did examine a couple of surveys and it was very fruitful. Accessibility was high on the list.

Florian: surveys can tell us when people aren't understanding concepts, it's a signal to tech writers that there is work to do here. Tried to list pain points with web components that we should address. So continue to keep an eye on surveys. In SWAG we will also be running a survey and some user interviews to understand their understanding. Important to talk to both sides: SMEs and web developers. Would welcome web devs to join docs CG as well, to give us their feedback.

Lola: Ensure documentation relevance, coordinate efforts to get outdated docs updated.

Estelle: we do it in OWD, no through this group.

Lola: again we should have an item in our meeting to discuss MDN activities and coordinate.

Florian: for ref docs, vendors (Google and Mozilla) have tech writers who document new features. What's not tracked is existing docs that are not adequate. That's not coordinated or tracked right now and this group could be the hub for it.

Estelle: Apple is documenting their stuff but only on their site. It would be helpful to get them involved.

Lola: yes it would.

Lola: with interop there is a lot of coordination between vendors.

Rachel: some vendors want to put everything through legal which makes it hard. Many people write tech content but don't consider themselves tech writers. e.g. Smashing mag. Perhaps they might be put off by framing it as web docs.

Lola: yes, if we can identify where people meet we could ask them to join.

Florian: when we launched docs CG had some interest and there were people who showed up, who don't any more. Maybe ask them again what they want to get out of it and how it can be more useful. Maybe be more open to async communication.

Lola: if we write agendas ahead of time we can advertise what's going to be in them.

Florian: idea is that we have editions for different groups, and do analysis on each and capture results in the issues. But how do we inject ourselves into WGs?

Lola: could help with this via TAG. Once a month might be too much but once a quarter might be doable. Then we would get 4 areas a year to analyse.

Florian: but before that we have to know we have capacity.

François: no process is needed, just go and talk to the WG chair and see if they want to come. Usually people are willing to come.

Lola: APA is similar, attend other WG meetings to talk about accessibility. 

Lola: be a hub for web documentation when docs projects appear

Lola: BUT: capacity. We had big dreams to help the Web Components, but one (very productive) meeting and no follow-up. We're a small group and we don't have capacity outside meetings. What can we do? Lighten our load? Look for more people? Look for more funding?

Estelle: need to create a plan for communication, tracking, and follow-up.

Lola: agree but even with processes, if the time is not there we can't do it. e.g. TAG, requirement is 1 day a week, and that's 1 day only TAG. What is our expected time commitment (if there is one)?

Florian: SWAG is somewhat successful. think of it as a specialised docs cg. We are funded, we can move it forward. If we finish and are funded, we could work on web components.

Estelle: maybe docs CG could be overarching group for SWAG CG. Worked on CSS modules alone.

Lola: inspired by web components/webextensions/WebDX, if you get funding to work on a thing, you could alternate on the thing you are working on with the general meeting.

Florian: WebDX decided to focus on just two things for now, 

François: work follows funding.

Will: have talked before about SWAG in docs CG, and would be fine. But want a track of executing our current projects (security, whatever else) and one of getting and assessing and triaging new requests for docs.

Vadim: it should be clear that it's possible to extend the scope when there are more resources. e.g. webextensions docs. Open to bringing new items if people bring 

Lola: explainers: people are into it but as Jeffrey said, if we don't get anything out of it we maybe should not do it. We maybe don't, but we might still show value by doing it.

Florian: research/analysis is important or funding. Our STF application was based on a lot of research on web security documentation. Analysis could be the basis of a pitch.

Lola: what is the appetite for doing explainers? Could help inform research, as we choose the explainers. But we can look at explainers anyway without having to review them.

Florian: it's helpful to review things and make them better. Some explainers would be useful to read but not random explainers. It does help TAG but we're not TAG.

Lola: as docs CG it's fine to say no.

Estelle: we could do something partial nd not review every explainer. It would be good if explainer had a form listing the components that should go in the explainer ("not applicable" is an option for some). That would give us more consistency.

Lola: sounds like a job for the editors of the explainer explainer, not for us.

Florian: weird to go to giant vendor X and complain about stuff in their repo.

Lola: if you're in W3C, then places that work goes on are open for people to comment. Explainers may not be on W3C repositories, but a lot of the people who participate are not members of the giant corp.

Lola: sum up:

- we want to refine the tangible work into multi-track, one track is research one is docs
- maybe explainers but looking like no
- moving dashboard into docs cg.
