# W3C Docs CG call, 2026-06-30

Present: Florian, Estelle, Patrick, Dipika

Chair: Florian

## Agenda

1. [TPAC 2026](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/27)
2. Security documentation
3. [Privacy documentation](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/29)

## Notes

### TPAC 2026

- We have been given two sessions:
  - https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/e5af69e3-2559-4f97-b432-b1f40cfb09d8/
  - https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ac1179a6-fa25-4ae3-9b7a-56fc09e83701/
  
- Lola requested sessions for TPAC. We got two slots. one toward beginning of week. We should confirm the dates so they appear on the docsCG calendar. Florian will do this.
Each session in 90m with no topics yet assigned. Likely depends on what we are working on at the time.
- Possible session with Francois on tooling, but that might be a Wednesday breakout. We will see.
- It does not collide with WebDX.
- Task: Florian will wait a few days, then confirm the dates.
  
### Security documentation

- See Will Bamberg's recap of the project: https://openwebdocs.org/content/posts/security-docs-sovereign-tech-agency/
- Other artifacts produced:
  - SWAG: https://w3c-cg.github.io/swag/docs/swag.html
  - Survey results: https://github.com/w3c-cg/swag/blob/main/surveys/web-security-survey-2025.md
- Will has finished the security docs and Will blogged about it. It's been quite a bit of work and turned out great.
- Other artifacts from the project is the SWAG document. Still a few issues to fix, but should be in publication stage in the next few weeks.
- Never produced a W3C document. So this part of the project was interesting.
- Another artifact was the security survey.
- Security documentation is now complete, we're switching to Privacy.

### Privacy documentation

- We have check-in call every Monday. Feel free to join.
- Current plan is this outline: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PqupzU-IbqZqOBoNa32KncrbnApxhMZY6WHYFRl2MQM/edit?tab=t.0
- 5 articles:
  - Privacy Primer
  - Threat modeling for Privacy
  - Handling User Data
  - Tracking
  - Privacy Regulation
  
- The plan is in the link above. 5 articles. We discuss at standup every Monday. look at how browser vendors are talking about it. Non-G browsers have various concepts on tracking. We can summarize that and discuss it as a whole instead of focusing on individual browsers. Some of this should make it into the primer.
- Most unsure about the handling user data section. There's data that you need to record for app to work, but can minimize that and be transparent about it. Input appreciated.
- Threat modeling. We wrote on this from a security standpoint, but we can look at it from a privacy perspective. Can look at Cycle Tracker for privacy focused threat model, for example. Most likely Florian to be looking into this.
- Patrick: do you need contacts from Edge to talk to browsers about their privacy perspective
- Florian: yes, would be good to get the MS perspective.
- Patrick: can ask someone from privacy team to look at outline to see if this is a good outline, but if OWD has specific questions.
- Florian: we'll come back to patrick after we are at that point.
- Patrick: why is this so vendor dependant
- Florian: not sure if it is. will know more soon. Moz and Webkit has published a lot on anti-tracking.
- Patrick: both have tracker settings available. web devs need to be aware, but not sure how much it plays in terms of MDN documentation.
- Florian: I will talk to Will and make sure to get MS perspective. the tracking article. More conceptual pieces is about the nomenclature. Moz and WK are using different terms. maybe we can create a table of terms to show what UAs are calling each of the things.
- Estelle will likely be looking into privacy regulations. CCPA (CA privacy act) and GDPR.
- Safari and Firefox are shipping GPC. See how those work with regulations. Compliance. likely not explaining the laws entirely, but intro on how to read them etc.
- We'll also do an audit of existing material and possibly reorg the privacy docs. input welcome.

### CSS Gap Decoration

- Estelle is working on this, it is a big and complex module
- Working on this in piecemeal to avoid a big PR
- Updated gaps properties to say they are now in their own specification
- First CSS Gap Decoration property is also in a PR now. Will use it as a template for all the other properties.
- Patrick: Everyone is talking about this, good timing to work on this.
- Estelle: Working on repeat() function helps to learn a lot about this

### CSS Scroll Triggered Animations

- Estelle is reviewing this work
