# W3C Docs CG call, 2026-06-02

Present: Florian, Dipika, Lola, Estelle, Dan (late), Jon (late), Patrick (late)
Chair: Lola

## Agenda

1. [TPAC 2026](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/27)
2. [Privacy documentation](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/29)
3. [Creating a better backlog dashboard](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webdocs/issues/28)
4. Masonry vs Grid Lanes: there was an action to put the doc in a public GH issue, was this completed?

## Notes

### TPAC 2026

- We need to submit a session proposal until Jun 17
- https://github.com/w3c/tpac2026-meetings/
- Florian: Maybe have a session so that folks can meet the Docs CG
- Lola: Do we want two sessions?
- Lola: TAG has a session at the beginning and at the end
- Florian: Even if the sessions are just proposals, we can use these slots

### Privacy documentation

- Florian: is Lola okay with us hosting dedicated privacy docs call?
- Lola: If it is weekly, does that mean some weeks will be two docs cg calls?
- Florian: potentially? we'd at least need the weekly sessions to keep momentum
- Lola: We should focus on privacy for now then, instead of multiple calls in a week
- Florian: That works. We need to discuss what's next
Action: open "what's next" agenda GH issue
- Estelle: would people from SWAG be interested? Would it make sense to add agenda item to SWAG for this? Or we could add privacy docs to our agenda at least every week.
- Florian: we could talk CSS but we'd need you to lead that
- Estelle: I'm worried that we won't be able to move from privacy
- Florian: I think we could have other topics post-privacy. If we want to discuss other things folks need to suggest them.
- Lola: we need input from everyone for topics
- Florian: We will be talking privacy but we can also talk about TPAC, modern web guidance, etc
Action: open "modern web guidance" agenda GH issue
- Florian to check shape of new meeting.
- Lola: so we should pause these meetings?
- Florian: Let's ask on slack for agenda items for general meeting. Need time to look into modern web guidance. 
Action: Lola to ask in slack for general agenda items.
- Estelle: if we do have other topics, it should be at the beginning or the end of docs cg. So one session is 30mins, 2nd session is 1hr.
- Florian: I will do a proposal and we can fine tune together. General outcome is that it's unlikely in the future that we'll have dedicated community groups for docs. Instead we should utilize docs cg.

### Creating a better backlog dashboard

link: https://openwebdocs.github.io/web-docs-backlog/

- Florian: no progress on this yet. Please have a look at backlog, please provide feedback.

### Masonry vs Grid Lanes

- Dipika: I have an action item to sort out the remaining bits
- Dipika: Will send a message on slack when done so