# [W3C Docs CG] Privacy Docs call, 2026-06-15

Present: Florian Scholz, Will Bamberg, Dan Appelquist, Jon Davis, Estelle Weyl

Note taker: Florian

## Agenda

1. Kicking off the Privacy docs project
2. Will presents the Privacy Docs outline
3. Other business

## Notes

Florian: Thanks all for joining today. We're going to meet every Monday now to discuss the Privacy docs project. This work is funded by the Sovereign Tech Agency. It is our last main work package which is part of a fund to work on Security and Privacy documentation for web developers. We're aiming to have made good progress on this by the end of August.

Will: I wrote an outline: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PqupzU-IbqZqOBoNa32KncrbnApxhMZY6WHYFRl2MQM/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.93uzywyh510p

Will: Question for today are there substantially large areas that are missing from this outline?

Will: Each of the heading in the outline will quite likely end up as MDN article, so we will probably want to write like 7-8 articles.

Will: In the appendix, I listed how MDN organizes the docs right now

Will: There is a lot of browser-specific stuff, mostly about cookies

Will: The first article is going to be "What Privacy means". This will introduce fundamental terms, like what personal data is PII etc.

Will: Second article: Handling user data. What to collect, how to ask for consent, how store and delete data, keeping data safe, having good operational security

Will: Then there is a section on tracking

Will: Fingerprinting, what it means and what browsers do about it. The tricky thing here is that browsers and website authors might not be on the same site.

Dan: Fingerprinting is a thing that the industry does, and they Privacy community doesn't want you to do these things.

Dan: See also "unsanctioned tracking", TAG finding. https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/

Dan: Also, If you do tracking, be at least transparent about it

Will: We will have a long article about tracking cookies, basically 3rd party cookies and how the different browsers approach these, and also what partitioned cookies are.

Will: Bounce and redirect tracking is another topic, as well as link tracking

Dan: Maybe also mention how many browsers are deprecating 3rd party cookies.

Will: Yes, it is a tangled mess how MDN currently documents 3rd party cookies. Let's have the ambition to make sense of this

Will: And then Privacy regulations, GDPR and GPC, what is actionable for web developers. Also talk about malicious compliance, try to understand where the regulators are coming from.

Dan: Also CCPA.

Will: GPC is the standard for opt-out, but it seems linked to CCPA, and not for more general purpose. 

Jon: Is Pixeltracking in here?

Will: No but that's a good idea.

Florian: What about Privacy Threat Modelling? Maybe a question for Simone. There is the LINDDUN framework.

Dan: How to ask for meaningful consent is probably an involved question, this involves various notifications, etc. Is this something for us to get into?

Will: Yes

Will: How to split up this work? We could have the regulatory stuff separately.

Florian: Is this one article or one for each regulation?

Will: We don't know yet. Maybe separate articles, would be easier to discover

Estelle: Should have an introduction page for each policy. Probably should be the same person to looking into all Policy

Estelle: I'm interesting in learning about these policy. Not yet familiar with European policy

Florian: Is there other prior art? Like privacyguides.org. Also, we need to be clear about our target audience: It is web developers and not end-users, like we are not here to teach how to use a VPN.

Dan: Can we provide actionable advice? Do this, use that API, etc. For example, GPC, bounce tracking mitigation. What are specific web platform features that we can recommend for privacy aid. Thinking about things that help with consent.

Florian: Would this be more like a list of things to not do?

Jon: Privacy by design principles (in relation to GDPR and others), these things are approached in the design process of development, Apple has documentation about this.

Jon: Tracking protection is in Firefox and in Safari

Jon: These webkit articles talk about more general concepts of tracking https://webkit.org/tracking-prevention-policy/ https://webkit.org/tracking-prevention/

Will: That's very useful. Going to try to integrate the more higher level tracking concepts into our article.

Florian: Where do we start?

Will: Probably start with the "What Privacy means"

Will: Also going to present this to the Privacy WG, I'm an invited expert there now.

Florian: I can take on an action to think about the Threat Modeling aspect and add a piece to the outline

Will: I will integrate thoughts from this call into the outline.

Thanks all, see you next Monday!
