# W3C Docs CG call, 2025-07-29

Present: Lola, Florian, Estelle, Patrick, Vadim, Jeffrey Yasskin, Eric, Francois, Alexandra

Chair: Lola

Note takers: Florian, Patrick, Francois

## Agenda

1. Welcoming more new folks
2. [Explainers](https://w3ctag.github.io/explainer-explainer/) (joined by Jeffrey & Matt)

### Explainers

- Lola: Let's talk about the explainer process
- Lola: Docs CG could own this document / the process
- Lola: Jeffrey is here, TAG co-chair, editor of the explainer explainer with Matt Atkinson
- (round of introductions)
- Jeffrey: What is an explainer? The TAG encourages folks to write up an explainer as a first exploration for an idea. Not yet specific solutions like IDL. In practice a lot of features get designed without an explainer, and so it gets written more like after the fact
- Florian: how does this compare to the RFC process? Many open source projects, or standards orgs do requests for comments. Is an explainer sort an RFC for the web platform?
- Jeffrey: meant to focus more on the use cases. In Python, the PEP process is similar to that. A lot of those are solutions focused. goal of explainers is to be more opened to different solutions. Doesn't always work out this way though. Teams usually have solutions in mind.
- Jeffrey: we also get proposals to solve a problem, and it turns out there's no solution. The goal of explainers is to get people to be more opened about alt solutions.
- Florian: would you say that explainers have no status? One thing we explore here is they're outdated, or come at the wrong time, or after the fact. It's usually very unclear to me where they sit in the process. With RFCs it's usually more clear.
- Jeffrey: a lot of RFCs are the proposal document, and they live until the feature gets into the product. The RFC is the only description of what has been changed. On the web we have specs. So there's a discussion about what we do with explainers after that.
- Jeffrey:  I think Alex Russell proposed explainers originally. Thinks explainers should live forever. I think this is a mistake, and I've been advocating for the explainer text moves into the spec. No consensus on this yet.
- Florian: if it's an ever green document, then how does it differ from the spec, docs, etc.
- Jeffrey: On the TAG, when the spec has shipped, we say the explainer should be maintained/updated. Answer is to usually update MDN instead.
- Lola: part of the issue with that
- Francois: I note the lack of clarity about the status of an explainer unfortunately also exists for the spec itself from time to time. Example: WebRTC identity, which is essentially abandoned. Standardization can be a mess
- Jeffrey: Implementers require specs to be updated but not explainers
- Lola: What are the expectations of owning this document? (vs the process). Does it make sense for the Docs CG to own the process at all?
- Jeffrey: Should be co-owned rather than transferred. Having the Docs CG co-own this would bring a good writing perspective.
- Jeffrey: There are pieces like "alternatives considered" which might be bit outside of the domain of this group but use cases etc. are good to get a review on
- Mozilla explainer explainer: https://github.com/mozilla/explainers?tab=readme-ov-file#how-to-add-an-explainer
- Lola: agree it should be co-owned
- (no disagreement)
- Lola: what are the Docs CG responsibilities here exactly? review when TAG reviews as well?
- Patrick: Consulting this group is useful to write a better explainer. For this group is useful to know about a new explainer. Don't want to make the whole explainer process slower. So one more step added to this doesn't feel good.
- Estelle: Agree. Shouldn't be a step or a blocker here. Should be here to provide guidance. We're not the TAG, so we can't provide these kinds of reviews.
- Lola: It should be more like taking a step from TAG rather than creating a new step. Danger that this feels like a new step is being added
- Jeffrey: Feels like you want to do a horizontal review here. Spec authors send their spec to multiple groups for check in their area of expertise: like a11y, privacy, TAG, security, etc.
- Jeffrey: could be that Docs CG does a review for how well it will be understood, documentation quality, etc.
- Alexandra: The Docs CG should own how to write an explainer, and horizontal review sounds good too. however, we need clarity on what the scope is here. Is the feedback on the quality of the doc? What is it that this group brings to the table exactly?
- Francois: Tracking: WebDX would like to explainers to be trackable. Would allow a web platform feature to be tracked through its lifecycle.
- Jeffrey: bikeshed has links to WPT, so specs could maybe also start linking to web-feature ids
- Lola: Done some Privacy horizontal reviews. Discussions in meeting, reviewer has a questionaire, then leave their review on the issue. Maybe come back to group for extra discussion
- Florian: 1/ Figure out what a docs horizontal review would be. What the questionnaire might look like. 2/ Look at the explainer's explainer and see whether there are things we'd like to improve. MDN has page types. For example, to write a page on a CSS property, you get an explainer that tells you how to do it. How can we help authors write better and faster explainers? That seems enough for a start.
- Jeffrey: what is this group most interested in in explainer docs?
- Florian: The use case is the most important one for me.
- Estelle: What other features are most relevant to this one? That may be interesting to look at. Maybe a way to get fewer specifications written. Privacy and security considerations, I'd like them to be fleshed out, and documented so as to understand the thought process. Example of AppCache. Or just to make sure that people are aware and think about privacy.
- Lola: There are some situations where linking to other things may be cumbersome, e.g., in the CSS space. The considerations section is meant to tap into this though. You need to explain what alternatives you've considered.
- Jeffrey: We also write explainers for tweaks to existing features.
- Lola: Sometimes, explainers can be quite short. Feature may be about matching some external update in an external spec.
- Florian: About the size of explainers: new feature vs. enhancement of a feature. There may be different kinds of explainers. We may need to guide authors as well so that they can take a shorter route. This guidance is currently not given. Maybe it makes sense to categorize existing explainers.
- Lola: I think that can come later when we're clearer on what we want from people. Sometimes, it can be an adjustment to an existing explainer. But we need to understand what we want in general from web feature authors.
- Estelle: Having more words doesn't necessarily make a document more cumbersome. If we had templates for the different types of explainers, it would add words to the explainer's document but it would lower the workload on the author. Writing about privacy, security and accessibility is not explained in the explainer's explainer.
- Jeffrey: It would be useful to have guides for these sections in specifications too. There's a specific category for features that focus on developers, but there aren't as many categories otherwise.
- Florian: Breaking down between CSS and HTML features may not be needed. I'm more thinking about "Service Workers" vs. "an add-on to Service Workers". Probably something to investigate.
- Lola: In some of the ones I've been reviewed, spec authors are quite good at mentioning the underlying spec or feature when there is one. We can also rely on issue tags. If it's an addendum, it may still be a large addendum.
- Alexandra: What happens to explainers when the feature exists? Does it get melted into the spec? I wonder if the answer to that question impacts the way we look at the doc.
- Jeffrey: We also do not have a document that describes what a spec should look like. The QA activity that existed a long time ago produced some documents, mostly outdated today.
- Lola: We have also spoken about that in the TAG. A larger discussion is needed. People have their own workflow. A small change may impact people.
